[music]
Bloomberg Audio Studios podcasts, radio
news.
[music]
>> Hello and welcome to another episode of
the OddLots podcast. I'm Jill
Weisenthal.
>> And I'm Tracy [music] Aloway. Tracy, I
have to say unfortunately I don't have
AI psychosis. I'm certain of that.
>> Debatable.
>> I'm pretty s I'm pretty sure I don't
have AI psychosis. I do have to say
unfortunately
like the amount of time now where it's
like it feels like AI related questions
>> and there many of them are sort of like
swallowing up the other thoughts that I
have in my head. Whether it's questions
about which model is best and why and
what are the economics of inference and
how much training is pre-training versus
post-training for each model. All like
it's just sort of like this blob that's
growing that's taking up more and more
of my thoughts.
>> What is your definition of AI psychosis?
Cuz one would argue that maybe thinking
about AI literally all the time would be
a form of psychosis. Well, let's just
say like I'm not the type who thinks
that like I don't like think that the AI
is a friend for one thing. [laughter]
I'm not in love with the AI models. I
don't think that in collaboration with
chat GPT that I'm stumbling on uh
unified theory of physics and things
like that. So like
>> but you do spend a lot of time inputting
instructions, pressing the button and
seeing what comes out
>> and seeing what comes out. I'm just
saying I think I'm aware that I'm
talking to a machine and that we're not
establishing any great breakthroughs of
which we are collaborators and partners
and friends.
>> Recognizing you have a problem is the
first step towards healing. Joe,
seriously though, there's there's a good
reason to think about AI more and more,
which is that a huge chunk of not just
the market but the real economy is now
revolving around AI. Right.
>> Totally. So anyway, again, within the AI
conversation, there are a lot of
subcategories. One of the subcategories
happens to be another OddLot's favorite
topic which is chips. Of course, chips
are used in multiple different ways.
There chips are used in different parts
of the AI supply chain. Different types
of chips have different roles. And so,
we have to learn more.
>> We have to learn more. And I have to say
I'm particularly interested in the
company we're about to speak to. Partly
because the two things I know about them
are number one, they just had a huge
IPO, right? raising something like $5.5
billion at kind of insane multiple. I
can't even do a price to earnings
multiple because they're not profitable
yet. But I think just on a sales basis,
it was like 67 times forward earnings,
which is
>> pretty juicy, pretty hot. And the second
thing I know about the company is they
make giant wafers. Yes.
>> Which is just a fun image to have
[laughter] in your head.
>> That's right. So if you were thinking
it's like okay there is a hot entrant in
this space what is their differentiator
well one fact about them is their chips
are just enormous about the size of the
dinner plate one might think you're
reading an onion article but in fact
it's real and apparently it actually has
some real technical advantages so
>> and it's different to what everyone else
is doing so everyone else is I guess
doing this sort of like modular
networking thing where you get together
a bunch of chips and you connect them
together and That's how you get more
compute, more memory, more power
basically. But this company has done
something different in the form of the
giant wafer.
>> The giant wafer. And if you figure that
to get maximum performance, you sort of
want to lessen the distance between
things, then put it all on one wafer.
Anyway, we're going to learn a lot more.
I'm very excited to say about giant
wafers and more. I'm very excited to say
we do have the founder and CEO of Sarah
Bros on the podcast, Andrew Feldman.
Truly the perfect guest. So, Andrew,
thank you so much for uh coming on the
podcast on the week of your IPO.
>> Well, thank you so much for having me.
What a pleasure.
>> Absolutely. Why don't you just start us
off? The big giant chip, they're
apparently real. They're as big as a
dinner plate. What is the technical
reason why this actually makes sense as
a superior form of architecture for at
least some aspect of AI?
>> Well, I think larger chips process more
information in less time.
>> Okay. And that that produces faster
results. And everybody had gone to
bigger chips. Nvidia had moved from 400
square millimeters to 800 square
millimeters over the course of five or
six years for this exact reason. And in
the compute industry, wafer scale, which
is building a chip, this big
>> for those who are, by the way, for those
who are just listening, Andrew is now
holding up the chip. And yes, it looks
it actually looks bigger than a dinner
plate to be honest. But is that is a big
>> That's a big chip.
>> Beautiful. 50 is think it's 58 times
larger than any other chip that had ever
been.
>> Wow.
>> And what it did was it allowed us to use
a different type of memory.
>> Okay.
>> A type of memory that there at the
beginning there are two types of memory.
There's memory that can store a lot but
it's really slow.
>> Okay. And there's memory that can't
store very much per square millimeter
but is blisteringly fast.
>> Okay.
>> And historically all graphics processing
units used this memory that could store
a lot but was really slow. And that's
the reason they do inference so slowly.
So if you're using Claude right now or
you're using anything but chat GPT, what
you'll frequently feel is you'll enter
your prompt and you'll wait for an
answer.
>> Right? And that's because the memory is
slow and they have to move a ton of
information from memory to compute. Now
by going to wafer scale we could use
this fast memory. Now we couldn't make
that memory store more information per
square millimeter but we could add
square millimeters. And so by building
this big chip we were able to stuff it
to the gills with this fast memory. And
that's why we're 15 times faster than
the fastest GPU. That that's why on some
problems we're 50, 100, even a thousand
times faster than graphics processing
units.
>> Wait, can you explain how you actually
manage to do this? Because I know there
have been previous attempts to do wafer
scale and I I seem to remember there was
even like an early attempt in the 1980s
or something to do it. How were you able
to pull this off?
>> Yeah, it was an ambitious undertaking,
that's for sure. Every previous effort
in the 75 year history of our industry
had failed, including Gene Amdall, who
who's sort of on the Mount Rushmore of
compute in our industry. He failed sort
of spectacularly in the mid 80s at a
company called Trilogy. Not only that,
but after we succeeded, people who had
visited us, who'd been in our labs,
tried to copy us, and they also failed.
And so what we were able to do is solve
a set of really fundamental problems.
And those problems cut across a wide
swath of technology. They cut across
lithography. So we had to collaborate
closely with TSMC. And they turned out
to be a great partner. We had to make
inventions in material and packaging.
That's how you put a processor, how you
put a piece of silicon on a motherboard,
deliver power and IO to it. We had to
make inventions in power delivery,
right? When you build a giant chip,
you're going to deliver way more power
to it than if you do a chip the size of
a postage stamp. We had to invent ways
to cool it. We had to write new types of
software that ran on it. All of these
had never been done before. And it was a
a decade long process.
>> It took us five years and about $500
million to deliver the first one. And
it's been an extraordinary run since. In
December, uh, we signed a deal with
OpenAI north of $20 billion, one of the
largest contracts ever signed in Silicon
Valley. And then in March, we signed a
deal with with AWS where they would
deploy uh our systems in their data
centers, in their AWS data centers. And
so, it's just been an extraordinary run,
but it took a long time. Yeah,
>> it took extraordinary engineering
>> and there were certainly long periods of
time when it wasn't clear we were going
to make this work.
>> Obviously, you've hit this remarkable
milestone. You have in fact IPOed and so
forth and right now markets valuing your
company at 64 billion dollar early days
of the IPO. Just for um the listener to
understand the chips are are they solely
an inference as opposed to you know in
training. When we think about AI, I
think about okay, there's training,
training the model, and then answer
giving. That's the inference. Are the
chips for just for inference?
>> So, a couple things I I think you framed
it exactly right. Training is how we
make AI, and inference is how we use AI.
>> And so, what happened was that in sort
of 2025, in the first part of 2025, the
models we made were smart enough to be
useful.
>> Yeah.
>> And there was an explosion of use. and
we use AI by doing inference. So there
was this sort of tidal wave of demand on
inference and that has continued in 2026
and we think it will continue for for
years and years to come.
>> And so that that's the what had happened
in 2015 when we began thinking about the
company.
>> We knew that AI was on the horizon and
it would eat a huge amount of compute,
>> right? And we we made sort of two
fundamental bets. We bet that it would
need dedicated silicon
and right graphics had needed dedicated
silicon. That's how you got the graphics
processing unit. Mobile compute
>> had needed dedicated compute. That's
where you got ARM processors.
>> We made that bet. And we made a bet that
modifying the GPU architecture wouldn't
be right. You needed to start with a
clean sheet of paper. And so what we
started with was a new vision. And that
vision could do training
and it could do inference. And it was
orders of magnitude faster at both.
But right now what we're seeing is such
an explosion in demand for inference
that a lot of the business has met as
inference even though we're just as fast
at, you know, the same amount faster
than than GPUs on training.
>> That's interesting. Maybe we'll get more
to the theoretical training market a
little later. Just real quick on
inference. Ben Thompson who writes a
newsletter about tech he wrote a piece
in which he distinguishes between answer
inference and agentic inference. So
answer inference is like you know format
my resume or whatever or write me an
essay on X or Y or answer some questions
and then aentic inference is like okay
here's this thing that's going to go
around. Do you distinguish and do
services for you? Not producing visual
answers. Do you distinguish between
those two? Is that a real divide in your
view? And can your chips do both?
>> Our chips can do both. I think it is a
divide.
>> Okay.
>> I think speed matters equally in both.
>> I think if you are engaged with the AI,
if you're writing code, which is
agentic, if you're writing code or
you're doing work, nobody wants to wait.
I mean, we could just turn the question
around and say, well, how big is the
market for slow search? Zero. How big is
the market for dialup internet? Zero.
Why is that? Because nobody wants to
wait, right? So, if you're engaged with
the AI, speed is of the essence. But if
the AI is doing agentic work and your
competitor gets three times, five times,
10 times as much work done in 20 minutes
than you do, you're going to get smoked.
And so this notion somehow that Ben
proposed that speed isn't very important
in agentic flows is dead wrong. That
speed is important in all aspects of
productive work. And that your ability
to get more done in less time is a
fundamental advantage that that acrru
over time. Right? If while your
competitor is doing one unit of work,
you can do three and in the next time
they do one unit of work, you do six.
>> Sure.
>> Right. This adds up over time and you
beat them in any line of work. And so
speed, which is sort of our specialty,
is is important across the board.
>> What do giant wafers and speed in
general actually mean for I guess the
economics of tokens? Because one way I
think about it, I have this sort of
vision in my head like, okay, if I'm out
shopping for toothpaste, I know I need
toothpaste every once in a while and I
go into like a CVS, a store, I get one
thing of toothpaste and then maybe a
week later I get some more toothpaste.
Or I could go to Costco and buy a giant
thing of toothpaste and take it home
probably at a cheaper cost. And that's
sort of how I think of the giant wafers.
Maybe it's a bad analogy, but what does
speed actually mean for the cost of
tokens?
>> Well, I I think there are a couple
observations. I I think people have
chosen so far to price speed a little
higher.
For example, Anthropic offered a premium
service in which they offered tokens
twice as fast and charged six times as
much
>> and they sold it out and they couldn't
meet the demand. Now, just to give you
an idea, we're 15 times faster than
they're twice as fast. And so, people
value speed because it allows them to do
more work and they value their time. And
when you can do more work in less time,
you are making people more productive.
That's why people have chosen to price
them at a premium. They don't cost more
to make. In fact, in the GPU
architecture is an extremely good
architecture and extremely efficient at
building very slow tokens. And if you
don't mind slow, the cost per token on a
GPU is extremely low. But the GPU has a
characteristic that as you try and go
faster, the cost and the power used per
token increase. Sort of like as you go
faster in your car, your miles per
gallon decrease,
right? So what happens is as you try and
get fast enough to be useful, fast
enough to be interesting, fast enough to
keep users intelligence focused on this
product, they become extremely expensive
and extremely power- hungry. And so the
question is is not just what people are
paying for a token, what people are
choosing to price them at, but what they
actually cost to make. And GPUs make
very slow tokens very cheaply. And
they're unbelievably expensive at fast
tokens. We make fast tokens vastly less
expensive than than GPUs. And we use a
tiny fraction of the power.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Let's say we stipulate that this is all
true and everyone wants the fastest and
everyone's like you know what this is
the solution that the Sarah bras
technology one big chip this is really
where it's at. How much of like your
market share for the inference market
when you look out next year, the year
after etc. How much is your market share
going to be dictated by your ability to
get capacity at TSMC fabs? How much is
that a gating mechanism for growth?
>> You know, TSMC is is a huge part of the
supply chain.
>> Yeah.
>> But we have some real advantages. There
are three areas right now that are
limiting vendors in building AI compute.
Number one is HBM memory
>> is this memory we described earlier that
can store a lot but it's really slow
>> that's made by three companies
approximately Samsung high nix and
micron and it's under unbelievable
supply pressure it's extremely difficult
to get there are very long lead times
it's unbelievably expensive right now we
don't use it the second part that's
limiting is a process inside of TSMC
called co-ass
And this is the process that that Nvidia
and other GPUs use. We don't use it. The
third thing is that at TSMC the factory
that is under most pressure is their 3
nanometer factory. We don't use it. We
use 5 nanometer. So we have managed to
avoid some of the the most binding
supply constraints. Now TSMC still has
to give us a meaningful allocation and
they've been an extraordinary partner
from the get-go and they are the
greatest manufacturing company on earth
by far. A fab is sort of a modern
pyramid. It's an unbelievable thing and
and I highly recommend you or or any of
your your listeners if you get a chance
to go to Taipei get go and see them.
They they are
>> just extraordinary.
>> Can you do FAP tours?
>> You can actually. Yeah, you can do fab
tours. you can go and they have a museum
of innovation and it is an extraordinary
thing.
>> They are the sort of the national
champion of of Taiwan.
>> Yeah.
>> But I I think today TSMC has given us as
many wafers as we've needed. Business
today is constrained by data centers.
>> And that's the grand irony, right? You
invent technology that has been
unbuildable, never been invented for 75
years in the history of compute. You
write software that is extraordinary.
You built a product that is vastly
faster than the incumbent. And what are
we all constrained by? Buildings,
>> right? Data centers right now are are
everybody's constraint in the entire
industry. Powered buildings. So, real
estate, it is an amazing thing right
now. And that is true sort of across the
board.
>> And that that will not change for uh the
next 15 or 18 months for sure. I mean,
since we're talking physical
constraints, I guess I should ask you,
we did an episode about helium recently,
the helium shortage given the uh
situation in the straight of Hormuz.
>> And one of the things that helium is
used for is lithography on semiconductor
chips. Has that affected you at all? Is
that something that you're monitoring?
>> We monitor, but there's not a lot we can
do. And there's plenty of stuff to worry
about that that we can affect. We
obviously are in communication every day
with TSMC. We're in communication with
our entire supply chain every single day
and we we stay a breast of of of the
various issues. Um but it it has had no
impact on us and uh we we put that in
the bucket of things that our
manufacturing partners uh worry about
also and that we can't help,
>> you know. So in addition to
manufacturing these chips, you actually
I I didn't realize this, you have your
own cloud. We do and or you have your
own cloud services which I have a bunch
of questions about that. You have your
own cloud services through which a user
can actually get access to various open
source models and so forth. It looks a
little bit uh sort of visually it looks
a lot like the open router interface
roughly the same environment
[clears throat]
except it's all like the open source.
What I'm something I'm curious about and
maybe you can speak to this you know
>> in traditional software opensource one
nice thing about open source is you
don't have to pay for it. So it's free.
It's a little bit different when we're
talking about there's no really such
thing as like free AI software because
even if it's like free, you still have
to like pay for the depreciation of the
chips and you have to pay for the
electricity to run them. So there's no
real such thing as like free open-
source AI software. But what I am
curious about in your experience as a
cloud vendor
are the open-source models cheaper on a
per unit of intelligence basis if we had
some way of saying levelized cost of
intelligence which I don't know if the
industry has yet. Are open source models
cheaper per
IQ point whatever we want however we
want to measure intelligence.
>> Yes by a lot.
>> Really?
>> Yeah. I I think in the closed source
world, you're paying a lot for that
extra little bit of intelligence, right?
The open source models, there are no
open source models
>> that are as good as the closed source
models.
>> Okay?
>> Think of it as 3 4% 5% different.
>> Something in that range. And it could be
a little more, could be a little less,
but the cost to you using them. Yeah.
>> Right. You can jump up right now and run
Kim K2. It's a one trillion parameter
model. It's an open source model on
Cerebris. We're 10 or 15 times faster
than than others. And what you're paying
for is the cost of our power and some
cost of the compute that took to
calculate it. What you're not paying for
was the cost to train it,
>> right?
>> And that's a battle that is underway in
the market. You have OpenAI with their
coding software. You have Anthropic with
their coding software. And you've got
companies like Cursor and Cognition that
are using open source. We power open AI
and we power cognition. You have a
battle underway between closed source
and open source. And I think that the
winners of that battle is yet to be
determined. What is clear is that the
closed source is is strictly better
>> by a little bit. By how much varies and
it's more expensive.
>> Yeah. I think we've talked about this
before, but like I've heard of a lot of
big companies in the US who have been
like very quietly shifting from some of
the closed source models to the open
source models like the Chinese ones like
Chem Kimmy. Is that what it's called?
Kimmy and Quinn.
>> I'm sorry to press you on this point,
but if you had to make a bet like in 20
years, is the dominant a AI model going
to be a cheap open-source thing or a
more expensive incrementally better
closed source model?
>> I I don't think there's going to be one,
right? There there's not one SAS
software, right? There's some big dogs,
right? There's Salesforce, there's some
other sort of giant players and there
are lots of other specialists. I I I I
can't think of many markets where we've
sort of settled on to to one player,
right? If you look at the semiconductor
market, you've got x86 where you've got
two major players in uh AMD and Intel.
And then you've got a whole adjacent
market owned by ARM and the the the
companies that build ARM parts. And then
you've got custom silicon around that. I
I think that's the way you're going to
have this. We're going to have, you
know, OpenAI is going to continue to do
extraordinary things. They will be
competitors to them and they will be
open source. I I don't think I don't
think any of those go away. Um, since
we're on the topic of software, one of
the things you often hear when talking
about, you know, new chip entrance going
up against Nvidia is this idea that,
well, you know, like Nvidia chips,
they're great and all, but the real moat
of Nvidia's business is CUDA, right? The
software stack that goes with it.
>> What's your take on that? like is that a
realistic concern for someone who's
trying to go up against a company as big
and I guess as embedded in the software
system as Nvidia currently is.
>> Nvidia is probably the greatest company
in the first part of the this century,
right? You know, Jensen's one of the
great CEOs of of our era along with Hawk
10 at Broadcom and maybe Lisa at AMD.
Just extraordinary and CUDA was really
important in the creating of the AI
landscape.
But it's not important now
>> and it has no role whatsoever in
inference. If you want to move from
running a model on GPUs today to running
it on us, we can move it in 10
keystrokes. Just move point to our API.
>> So that's the first part. The second
part is that a year ago, every major
Frontier Lab model
had been built on a CUDA foundation and
today two of three haven't. So they lost
70% market share. There are three
leading frontier models, Gemini, Claude
and GPT. Gemini built by Google on TPUs,
trained on TPUs, served on TPUs. No CUDA
anthropics models trained on tranium,
no CUDA, served on TPUs, on trainium and
on GPUs and OpenAI's GPT trained on GPUs
>> in the CUDA environment. So two of the
three leading models today use no CUDA.
>> That's a hemorrhaging a share. And so I
think what was true three or five years
ago in which CUDA had a dominant
position with central has shrunk
significantly and not important at all
in inference and shrinking in its role
in in training.
>> You know since we're talking about the
economic since we're talking about you
know the economics of inference and all
this stuff I've actually I would love to
get your take. One of the things that PE
that like literally in the last couple
weeks there's been this flurry of
announcements of these attempts to
financialize the market for compute and
so it's like oh you're going to like buy
some capacity the H100 benchmark etc and
people want maybe theoretically hedging
it. I'm not entirely convinced. It still
seems to me like I it's not a like maybe
but on the other hand like an inference
provider can lock in a very long-term
relationship bilaterally with a data
center and so forth and no need for like
these spot hedging markets. Do you think
the market is going to evolve in such a
way that there will be significant
demand for financial instruments that
allow inference providers to um hedge
their price exposure?
>> I don't know. I'm not a financial
engineer is the first thing. But we can
look a little bit at history.
>> Okay.
>> The guys at Cororeweave
>> were enormously innovative
>> in how to fund some of their massive
deployments. They were some of the first
to use a dead instrument that had a
backs stop with the GPU
and this enabled them to to really leap
out and sort of have first mover
advantage in the NeoCloud space. And
that that was an innovation in financial
engineering and extremely creative.
Others followed and now there's a big
and and and active debt market
>> in funding the building and the fit out
of data centers.
>> When you have a a market that is that
big and that active, you have people who
want to make bets on either side. And I
I think over time those bets normalize
and regularize and and you can wrap them
up and you can make it easy to make the
bet. When sort of CO2 was one of the
first to loan money against GPUs for
Coreweave, this was really innovative.
And not only does Coree get credit for
the creating of the instrument, but so
does the other side of the deal for
doing it and making a successful
innovative bet. And as sort of more and
more people jumped in and these could be
regularized, they could be more easily
priced and then it once it's regularized
and you have a market then derivatives
of that market are easy to make
historically. And that's sort of the way
I see this unfolding that that that as
this market for data centers and compute
matures, uh there'll be people making
bets on either side and financial
instruments will be created to to do it.
Whether it's a good idea or not, I have
no opinion at this time. Since we
brought up finance, uh I was looking
through the IPO filing and looking at
some of the actual numbers in there and
I know you have the Open AI deal now,
but a huge chunk of your revenue comes
from this company called G42 in Abu
Dhabi and I think they're both like your
biggest customer and also a major
investor. What does G42 actually do with
all these chips?
>> Sure. uh last year they were a a a
really important chunk of our business,
a lot of it. Um they're a minor a
minority investor. They are uh the
national champion, the national AI
champion of the UAE and they build a
cloud that is used across the the UAE's
ecosystem.
So it's used by leading universities
there. It's used by leading companies
there. companies like ADNOC. They're
their leading oil company. It's used by
G42's
nine operating companies. The
deployments to date have been in the US.
We have data centers that massive data
centers that that run equipment for uh
G42 here in in Santa Clara, but also in
Minneapolis, in Dallas, Texas, soon in
in Toronto. And so they're doing
training and they're doing inference.
The training they're doing uh they have
pioneered some of the leading English
Arabic models. They've done genomic
work. They are doing serving of models
and they're operating as a as a cloud
particularly for the the UAE ecosystem
but also for for global [music]
companies.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Do you think that over time
corporate users and perhaps individual
users but corporate users will want
inference served from a company that's
separate from the model maker such that
they can be certain that they are not
revealing and thus training the company
that might replace them. I mean, look,
Anthropic every couple days announces
some new thing. Oh, we have a new
markdown file that could do this for
taxes or that could do this for
whatever. And then a bunch of companies
fall.
>> Like, are companies that you use AI
increasingly going to want to want want
to use data centers and inference
providers that aren't the model
themselves? Well, first I I think there
is a type of professional,
a type of of job that is most directly
under threat from AI.
>> Okay?
>> And they're almost always white collar
and they required you to have expertise
over a body of knowledge.
Right? That's what an accountant is,
right? They have you you have expertise
over a body of knowledge of rulings of
previous examples of tax case law
>> etc. That's exactly what AI is good at
right now. Exactly. So lawyers,
accountants, this sort of these
professionals who have stood between
sort of the ordinary person who doesn't
know anything about IRS tax rules and
the tax rules [snorts]
that that is is under threat and That is
something that it will be very easy for
companies like OpenAI and Anthropic to
chew through. There are other areas like
say drug design or genetics genomics
where companies like Galaxosmith Klein
have remarkable and unique data sets.
This is true for one of our large
customers Mayo Clinic. It's true for
Galaxos Smith Klein and other of our
pharma customers. They have unique data.
>> Yeah.
>> And they will be able to find insight in
that data and they will be able to get
value from that data and they will
certainly not want to share that data wi
with the foundation model makers unless
they are guaranteed that it will not
sort of make the general model smarter.
>> Right? And these are companies that have
spent 20 or 30 years spending tens of
billions of dollars a year gathering
data, right? Patient care records or or
test results for drug design. They're
going to mine the insight in this work
and they're going to provide find
extraordinary things and th those are
much more protected because the
insight's in the data and they have the
data. You know, you were talking about
fabs in Taiwan earlier, and I I'm now
regretting not going on a fab tour when
I was in Taipei, but it just didn't
cross my mind at that time. Next time,
yeah, hopefully.
>> And there have been various efforts
under the chips act and some other uh
industrial policies to try to build more
chipmity
in the US. In your view,
>> what's the big I guess impediment to
actually doing? Yeah. A, is it
happening? And then B, why does it seem
so difficult to actually make happen?
>> Right? The f the first thing is
difficult because it's a difficult
problem to they're hard. They cost 30 or
40 billion dollars and take five or six
years to build. So that amount of money
in that amount of time cuts across
administrations,
right? And that's a problem with uh the
politics in the US is it's hard to make
policy that's durable across
administrations and across time. It's
the first thing. The second thing is
these are remarkably complicated
buildings.
And we have a sort of a hodgepodge, a
sort of strange lattis work of local
regional building codes that that a a
fab maker has to negotiate.
Third is we're trying. TSMC h has
dedicated tens of billions of dollars to
their fabs in Arizona and have committed
hundreds of billions more. Samsung has
dedicated tens of billions of dollars
and committed hundreds of billions more
to their fabs in Texas, but they take a
long time and we have to remain
committed to building not just the fab
but the surrounding ecosystem not just
for three or five years but for 20 years
or 25 years because you want not just
one fab but you want a whole trajectory
of fabs. You want them working at
today's cutting edge, but tomorrow's and
next year's and in 10 years cutting edge
as well. And th those are things that
have proven really challenging in the
US. And I I think we need it. They are
strategic assets. And I I think we we
need to find ways to collaborate with
those that have the expertise and to
find ways to build policy that is
durable o over a length of time that can
build a a vibrant ecosystem in in in the
fab and the associated elements. So the
other big political economy theme I
guess when it comes to semiconductors is
this idea that they are in fact a
strategically important technology and
so the US should place some limitations
on their use abroad and so we've seen
things like export controls export
restrictions
you're an actual chip company and so I'm
very curious at an operating level what
your experience of these kind of export
controls has actually been like how much
time does that take up for you? And then
also given that one of your biggest
customers is an international firm in
Abu Dhabi like how important is the
trajectory of those export controls to
your future business?
>> I think you know three [snorts] or four
years ago I would have said not
important at all. I think today they're
really important. In the last
administration, I I got to know the
leadership in the Department of Commerce
and in the the the BIS division of
commerce, which oversees the licensing.
I I think this is an extraordinarily
difficult job and we we we saw really
hardworking, smart people doing a job
that is is very very difficult. I got to
know the people in this administration
and I I found the same. every single one
of them is earning a tiny fraction of
what they could earn in the private
sector and is doing this because they
they they believe that this is an
important mission. The problem is is
that that there are differing views
about the right way to do this and there
are differing views on you know the
right way to achieve the goal which is
to not give your most precious
technology to your industrial enemy. And
I I think we can agree that uh today in
today's environment, China is an
industrial enemy. Good well-meaning
people can disagree on whether the right
strategy is to limit them from gaining
access. Others argue as as those at
Nvidia have argued is that the right
strategy is to give them access and to
keep them working on on on our product
on US-made on US sort of designed
product. I come down on the other side
of that argument. I understand there
they're good arguments in both
directions. I I think limiting the
distribution
uh the diffusion of our most precious
technologies makes sense
>> and I I think uh we have to do it
thoughtfully and we have to recognize
that means some markets will be
foreclosed to us and I'm okay with that.
Just quickly on the sort of like current
business stuff, you mentioned the deal
with AWS. How does that work? Could
customers right now like could customers
of AWS pay them to have inference served
specifically on one of your chips?
>> Not yet, but soon.
>> Okay.
>> They will be it will be served in
bedrock, which is their AI as a as a
service offering. M and they will yes be
able to go down to the click down menu
and and get super fast inference which
will be delivered via a combination of
what's called a disagregated solution
which is using some tranium for some of
the the the inference work and using the
cerebrous technology in our systems
called the CS3 for other parts of the
work
>> and presumably someone who scrolls down
and selects that they would pay some
premium for that ultraast inference. I
think they they will pay a premium. We
will see. This is entirely as as Amazon
wishes to price it. This is their
product.
>> So, you IPOed this week. It's May 2026.
This is not the first time that you've
tried to or looked towards going to the
IPO market. There were headlines going
back to 2024 about wanting to try for
the IPO market. And then there were
headlines last year, especially because
of the relationship with G42 about uh
CPHAS and some of the national security
concerns and maybe that was an issue
with the IPO. And then but also last
September you got an uh one of your I
looks like G round Gound one of the
participants in the G round investor was
1789 Capital which is of course the firm
assoc that's associated with Donald
Trump Jr. which is a lot of things. And
then the IPO happens.
I'm a cynic. So I wonder if the
participation if uh Donald Trump Jr.'s
investment in your company made it
easier to get the green light from these
national security concerns to do an IPO.
>> I wish it were that easy. No, it had no
no role at all. We resolved all CPHAS
issues in March
>> of 2025. I believe that was before we
took money from from 1789.
>> Okay.
>> Moreover, I I I wouldn't ask that.
That's not who I am and that's not the
way we roll. So, we took money because
they are a a thoughtful venture firm.
>> Okay.
>> And we we don't believe that that
there's only one point of political
view. There are lots of political views.
They all have some merit.
>> Um they all have some weaknesses. And so
we we have right leaning political some
investors. We have left leaning. the
fact that that this firm had some
right-leaning in in sort of investors.
We we were looking only at their ability
to help us build an extraordinary
company and we we have asked and we will
not we have never asked nor will we ever
ask for political access or anything of
the kind.
>> What's it like to become a billionaire
in a single day? This is something I
assume will never happen to me, so I
might as well ask you. No, I I I think
the honest truth is it was a big nothing
for me. I was had some wealth before and
have some wealth after. I I think this
is a very difficult way to make money,
right? Being a tech CEO. I think what
you have to do is you have to love the
work, you have to love the people, and
you have to think every day about how to
make your team rich.
And far more important than than sort of
some change in my wealth was we made
more than 800 millionaires.
>> Nice.
>> And that's something I'm proud of every
minute of every day. And at my last
company, we we made a hundred
millionaires. And at this company,
through our IPO, we made more than 800.
And that's something that you wake up
feeling good about yourself every single
day. That was going to be my last
question, but actually you just reminded
me in that answer, you know, the idea
that getting here, I said you became a
billionaire in a day, but obviously this
was the outcome of years and years and
years of work. And if we think about
technological hardware, one of the
things most people associate it with is
really long lead times and really big
research and development budgets. Now
that you're a public company, how do you
sort of balance that quartertoquarter
financial performance pressure with the
idea that you still need to be investing
in capex in new, you know, new ways of
designing chips, new improvements to the
existing ones?
>> Well, first we we we think the
opportunity for innovation based on our
our wafer scale engine, the the best
work is still ahead of us. Number one,
we we we see an opportunity for
extraordinary innovation in the years
ahead to make leaps every bit as big and
and often bigger than what we made by
building the largest chip on Earth. When
you love building hardware, the fact
that it takes time is part of the deal,
right? That that um what we do can't be
done in a week or a month or a year.
And you you that's what you sign up for.
And that's true in in in every
profession. you you you sign up for the
the the good and and and the challenging
and you you have to sort of make peace
with that if you're a person that that
that wants to dive in and and and sort
of begin iterating right away and fail
quickly and and code up something and
look at it and throw it out in the
market and see if it wins. Godspeed.
That's great. And that's not for me. You
know, in our business, we we measure
twice before we cut once. And you you
have to put that in your soul and you
have to like it. You you have to like
that that mistakes in our business are
really expensive. And you have to like
the fact that you breathe life into a
chunk of silicon.
>> Yeah.
>> And you get it to do things that nobody
else has ever been able to make a chunk
of silicon do. And if if that's for you,
then this process that that that takes
time and money, um you love that, too.
And and so I I think I would love it
less if you could do it in a week. And I
I think the people that that I love to
work with, they they feel the same way.
And they like being engineers not
because it's a path to money. They like
being engineers because they like
building things. And they like building
hard things. And I like working with
them for for exactly that reason.
>> Yeah. You mentioned breathing life into
a chunk of silicon. My dad, who's a
physicist, always likes to point out how
um carbon and silicon are right next to
each other on the periodic table. They
are and the sort of like here are the
two things that we have closest to life
and they're literally touching each
other. Maybe there's something deep in
that.
>> I I think that's a really thoughtful
thing your father said.
>> Thank you.
>> And I I I I think that's really cool.
And uh nobody pointed that out to me
though we've stared at periodic tables
for a long time. But I I think to the
extent we can make artificial life, we
need silicon.
>> Yeah. And they're right next to each
other,
>> right? Carbon carbon's the heart of all
other life and artificial life will be
founded at least the intelligent part
will be founded on silicon.
>> Right below silicon is Germanmanium.
Maybe the next I don't know. Well, let's
ask your dad.
>> Yeah, let's keep an eye on Germanmanium
next. Andrew, thank you so much for
coming on OddLots. Uh fascinating
conversation right in the sweet spot of
what we're interested. Really appreciate
you taking your time. Hey, thank you
guys for having me and I really
appreciate it. Look forward to seeing
you again soon.
[music]
That was really fun. I'm super
interested in this topic and it does
feel to me like the economics of
inference in particular and the market
for inference inference capacity speed
like it's still day one. You know what
I'm saying?
>> Yeah. I just like looking at the giant.
>> It's so cool. It's It really does seem
like an onion thing, doesn't it? It's
like company solves inference with a
giant
>> building the biggest chip in the world.
>> But it is interesting. We did that
episode of course with uh Ray Wang from
semi analysis and talking about the role
like memory as being this really
important part of the sort of cutting
edge chipsets and it's interesting to
think it's like okay well here is a
bottleneck that doesn't run into that
they don't have and the idea that at
least as he described it they're not
fighting to get the smallest nanometer
chips and so maybe that gives them a
little bit of breathing room on capacity
there too. Yeah, I I mean I do imagine
there are some downsides to having giant
chips in you know just as there are
upsides that Andrew laid out. The other
thing I was wondering, I know he made
the case for the reason speed is very
important, but like I can also imagine a
world where
>> maybe it's not that important,
>> you know, like
>> I think at some point like the
incremental speed factor just starts to
become less important when weighed
against like the incremental cost of
generating that extra speed. I think it
really this is like one of those things
where it probably really depends what
you're what you're using it for. Right?
So it's like if you're like you know
what I'm really curious uh why
pterodactyls aren't actually dinosaurs.
Can you explain it to me?
>> Then it's like I don't care about that.
Like that fraction of a second is not
that important.
>> Five minutes for the chatbot to tell you
you're wrong Joe.
>> You just but you just don't really care
that much. But if you're doing some sort
of like agenda coding thing or whatever,
etc. then like Yeah. that that
definitely adds up. And I will say like
as you use it more like it's just like
everything else the the treadmill of
expectations here's some task that you
can do in 30 seconds which maybe several
years ago would have taken you 30
minutes and you get a patient in that 30
seconds and you want it in 10 seconds
and that's just like that competition to
shave down seconds I think is always
going to be there.
>> So
>> no one ever gets satisfied with this is
is my point. It always eventually
becomes like it feels like waiting.
>> But to me, this feels like this is the
crux of the AI valuation argument, which
is like how much of a premium are we
going to place on a model that maybe a
closed source model that is maybe
slightly better than an open-source
model? How much premium are we going to
place on compute that is slightly faster
than this other type of compute or like
other use of compute? like that to me
it's an unanswered question and Andrew
was pretty upfront about closed versus
open source but I think on the speed
question too like we're going to find
out
>> we're going to find out and you know the
did I think one of the things that is
going to happen and there have been all
these stories about sort of like token
shock like how much companies are
spending on tokens
>> my guess is one of the things that will
happen at some point is there's going to
be a lot more discussion about why are
we using this ultra premium model when
we could have done this like there is a
lot of just like throw it at the AI rack
up those bills etc and at some point
there's going to be this like okay what
really needs to be served fast what
really needs to be served on the most
premium closed source models and
companies are probably going to get a
lot more skilled at allocating from you
know different forms of inference
depending on the need
>> yeah I think that's exactly it and at
that point like we could I'll see some
of the dynamics in the market start to
change in terms of valuation. Um, shall
we leave it there?
>> Let's leave it there.
>> This has been another episode of the All
Thoughts podcast. I'm Tracy Aloway. You
can follow me at Tracee Aloay. [music]
>> And I'm Joe Weisenthal. You can follow
me at the stalwart. Follow our producers
Kerman Rodriguez at Kerman Arman [music]
Dashel Bennett at D-Bot, Kalebrooks at
Kalebrooks, and Kevin Lozano at Kevin
Lloyd Llozano. And for more OddLotss
content, go to bloomberg.com/odlotss.
We have a daily newsletter and all of
our episodes. And you can chat about all
these topics 247 in our Discord, [music]
discord.gg/odlotss.
>> And if you enjoy OddLotss, if you
[music] like it when we talk about giant
wafers, then please leave us a positive
review on your favorite podcast
platform. [music] And remember, if you
are a Bloomberg subscriber, you can
listen to all of our episodes absolutely
adree. All you need to do [music] is
find the Bloomberg channel on Apple
Podcast and follow the instructions
there. Thanks for listening.
[music]